Under the Mangrove Tree

Spring, 2012

In the summer of my blossoming youth, I picked up a cat with ivory fur. And, in the spring, I met a girl with an ivory soul. 

"What colour do you want to be?" she asked.

She stared at me with those scarlet eyes. They were eyes that burned with a lust for knowledge, I knew that much, yet, I could never read them. Then again, I didn't know her too well. But why did they make my heart beat so damn fast? It was as if they provided the fuel that kept me alive. 

I looked away, pretending to be noticing something in the distance. I didn't want her to see how easily flustered I could become. How easily red she could make me. I thought about it for an awkward amount of time, avoiding her gaze.

"Hmm, never really been asked that. What about you?" I said sheepishly.

"I want to be white."

I laughed uncomfortably at her straightforwardness, looking away from her every time her eyes met mine.

"Why is that?" 

"It's the colour of a blank canvas. I like to paint my life on whatever I experience. And today, I met you. Would you like a special spot in my canvas?"

It was at that moment that my eyes met with hers. I pointed at her heart.

"Yes, I know exactly where I would fit."

Our gazes intertwined and danced with each other. At that moment, it was me and her, living in our own little world. It didn't matter to me if there wasn't anyone else. As long as I was with her, she completed me. Her scarlet eyes resembled the burning flames of a fireplace that warmed my heart. I wish this moment could last an eternity. Wait...did I just say what I was thinking out loud? Oh shit...

She looked at me inquisitively, as if she had seen an alien or an episode of glee.

"I mean. Uh. sure, I'd love to be on your canvas-----

"Don't worry," she smiled, "it's an endless canvas for everyone."

I really hope she didn't realize how much her beauty stunned me. Her eyes kindled the fire in my heart. Her rich, golden hair was the light of my life. Even the fruit flavoured scent of her hair sent a shudder down my whole body. Her skin was smooth, almost like ice, if I wasn't careful, I would get stuck to it. On the outside I tried my best to seem calm, but on the inside, I was the flight of the bumblebees. A flurry of emotion. A snowstorm.

She looked at me. 

"Hey, what's your name," she said.

"___________"

At that moment, a strong gale brew. She ran her fingers through her golden hair and closed her eyes to protect herself from the wind.

"I like that name," she said.

She reminded the of the sun. Like how it breathes life into its constituents below, she energized me, sharpening my senses for the sole purpose of being capable of taking in her beauty. But the sun is only something to be admired from afar and I knew that I wouldn't be able to grasp her for myself. She was too bright and I had to look away.  

She grabbed my arm and broke me through my trance. Once again, my eyes met with hers.

"Come on," she said as she started running with me, "let's get back."

From that day on, everything took colour, my world was no longer monotone. She, was my key to freedom, the one I've spent my entire life looking for. It was at that moment that my life began to take flight.

The day before yesterday, I saw uncertainty. Yesterday, I saw loneliness. But today, I saw you.

                            ***

I woke up to the sound of cicadas, chirping their worries away, as if there was no tomorrow. Tiny slivers of light peeked through the foliage above me. The tree I was leaning on was tall and welcoming, with a pleasant aroma of honeydew. It's leaves sheltered me from the hot sun.

I was in the best summer home in the world, one that would beat anything you could ever buy. A cool breeze brew and brushed through my hair. I closed my eyes, and enjoyed the sound of the rustling leaves that were dancing with the wind, looking to mesmerize anyone who happened to sit down and enjoy their performance. It was just me, in my own little world. With my soul at rest, the sweet air coursing through my lungs, my thoughts began to wander.

Was life always so ideal? I guess...there was once a time where I could call it that. 

Back in my second year at the dorms, Mashiro always seemed to be well...just there for me. I guess, she wasn't what people would call, the graceful type. She was clumsy, awkward, and overall, just a hassle to be with. But...that was what made my heart flutter every time I saw her. That was what made my insides turn to mush every time she stared at me with those scarlet eyes, eyes that burned with passion, the passion, and the embers...that started my life. 

In my second year at the dorms, I remember having admired her tenacity as she worked tirelessly, day after night and night after day. She was trying to finish the artwork for the game we were making for our school's cultural festival. Our entire dorm banded together to work on it. During that week, she refused to leave her room when everyone else ate dinner together downstairs. Every evening, I would knock on her door and place her food at its front. Sometimes, I would wake up the next day to find it still there.

Every time I knocked, I was met with silence. It was killing me. To not be able to see those scarlet eyes. To be denied the pleasure of her cherry scented hair. To feel my heart skip a beat every time she held my hand in both of hers, telling me to give life my all. But most of all, I was worried. I don't really know why I was so worried that day. She had always went through crazy lengths to get what she wanted. 

That day, I decided to enter her room. My pupils dilated and my breathing halted. There, in front of me, lied the girl that gave me my life back. She was motionless, as lifeless as someone could be. Her head was flat on the table. The pen in her hand was  frozen in time on her drawing board. I rushed towards her, fearing for the worst. 

I remember...that at one point, I got in a fight with her. It was one of those fights we usually had so my memory's a bit hazy. 

I was worried about her. Deep inside, I was scared. I worried that she was working so hard, she would collapse from exhaustion again. Of course, I would never show it. That would be embarrassing. But it was there, the pain, the anguish, the anxiety. I told her that she was working hard enough, and that she should take a rest. I mean, resting does increase work productivity later on right? But she wouldn't budge, she kept working. 

Soon the little skirmish turned into an argument of values. "You're not you when you're angry," they say. Little by little, she was tipping me off the edge. She insulted my pride, pride that I never should've had because there was nothing about me to take pride of. She told me that I wasn't working hard, that at least, she was contributing to the team 

Deep down, I knew she was right. Telling her that rest was good for her was simply an excuse for my incompetence. I was jealous. Jealous that the world recognized her talent for art. Jealous that she got all the job offers. Jealous that she had the ability  to work hard. I was a monster.

I recall her expression, constantly switching from being intimidating to being intimidated, like the switches from day to night. I don't remember much. But, soon, the argument ended with me clutching the wall, towering over her. Her eyes turned from scarlet to bright crimson from crying. The anger was long gone. Her eyes were still red, but they were no longer burning with the fury, the curiosity, the passions she once had. All I could see was fear, fear for none other than me.

I decided to walk out of the room before anything could get worse. The moment I stepped out of the door, I instantly felt disgusted with myself. Disgusted with what I had become. The pain started to build up in my throat, as if my gut was replaced by a volcano. I took a deep breath. I had to make this right. There's no point in dwelling how shitty I was.

I made my way back to the work room. As I walked through the hall, I started to panic. When I spoke to her, everything usually came naturally. That was how it always was for us. But now, my mind was blank. Utterly blank. It was as if I was wiped out of her canvas. It was as if she wasn't the girl I knew anymore.

I had to make things right again. I couldn't let the fire she kindled be put out by my mistake. She was my gem, and she always will be, nothing about that has changed. I couldn't let everything end there.

I turned around and strode towards her room. The walk was short, but it felt like the longest one of my life. I took a deep breath as I approached the door to her room. I placed my hand on the knob. And opened the door. 

Except...the for didn't open. 

Why? Why isn't it opening? My hand was still on the handle. But it refused to turn it, like a dog that refused to take a bath. I tried again. It was no use. Again...and again....and again.....and again....and again.... Come on move!!! I have to make this  right!!! I can't my relationship end here. I can't let my life end here.

A voice echoed in my head.

"Run away."

It's not my hand disobeying me. It's me. 

"Your relationships never last. People choose others over you anyways".

No. This can't be happening to me. Is this...fear? The pain was excruciating; it was as if my soul was  shackled by the chains of insecurity, desperately trying to break free. 

What if she rejects my efforts to make it up to her? What if I get too nervous and fumble? What if I can't think of anything to talk about? What if this is the last time I see her?

"If you'll mess up. You might as well not talk until you're ready".

No. You're wrong.

"Take it easy. You'll get other chances to talk to her. Maybe when you're both calmed down."

No. You're wrong. If I can't fix it now, WHEN WILL I EVER BE ABLE TO DO IT? If I keep finding excuse after excuse, we'll grow farther and farther apart. Until, she's completely barred away from me. I have to make things right. While I have the chance; while I still can.

Move. Move. MOVE.

When swordsman of similar caliber fight, they augment their senses to the point at which time seems to slow down. All of their training and life comes down to a point in time where it's either them or the other. As I turned the knob, everything froze.

                       ***

Who would've thought it'd end up like this? Who would've thought I'd cause it on my own?

No. 

Back then, I could never have called it perfect. I took everything for granted...until I lost it. Is it ever too late to appreciate? If only time travel were possible...could I really fix things? 

I couldn't help but smile at how comfortable I was, and how cool I must look to anyone watching, If there were anyone watching. 

All around me, endless stretches of margarita flowers bloomed. At their horizon, they seemed to kiss the perfectly clear blue sky, a sky that was painted with planets of all shapes and sizes. This had been my world - though undoubtedly, at the time, I didn't realize that it was a blessing in disguise, one that wouldn't last. I closed my eyes, enjoying the spring breeze. When I opened them again, I perceived two dark figures at a distance. One of the figures, to my surprise, belonged to myself. Not quite. He seemed to be several years younger. The other

At a distance, I perceived a dark shadowy figure, walking towards me.  Who is he? I created this world? 

"No," the figure said, "I created this world."

The vast expanses of blue sky turned crimson red. The tree I was leaning on began to rot, as if it aged 1000 years. Slowly, the grass around me turned from green to yellow, then from yellow to brown.

"This is your world. You are me. And I am you."
